Name: James Dey

Home Address: 9 Milton Road

  Wimbledon

  SW19 8SF

Tel No: 07941 252447

Email: james_dey@hotmail.com

-   Enterprise Archtiecture (BizzDesign, Sparx EA)

-   Cloud data architecture

-   Data Modelling (Conceptual, Physical, Logical), Kimball, Inmon, Data
    Vault, UML)

-   Data Integration (ETL/ELT) and Application Integration (EAI/API)

-   Data Discovery, Reporting & Data Extracts

-   Business Analysis

-   Business Glossary

-   Axon Data Governance

Recent certification

-   TOGAF Certification – Part 1 Foundation – September 2020

-   Collibra Expert II – June 2020

-   Collibra Expert I - March 2019

-   Collibra Expert III – March 2019

-   SAFe4 Agilist – October 2018

Education

University of Southampton Management School,

Home Farm

Leigh Road

Eastleigh

MSc Information Engineering 1996

University of Bradford

Richmond Road

Bradford

West Yorkshire

BEng. (Hons.) Electrical & Electronic Engineering 2ii 1991

Work History (from 2017 onwards)

[]Shell November 2022 to Present

Job Title: Enterprise Data Architect

Trading & Risk Management data store

Developed a comprehensive conceptual and logical data model to support
trading and risk management (TRM) operations in the renewable energy,
power, and gas sectors. This model, which was rapidly prototyped,
encompasses various aspects of TRM including contracts, deal books,
deals, deal tickets, deal legs, trading desks and subdesks, trading
areas, markets, market components, traders, counterparties, legal
entities, commodities, deal positions/exposures, and the computation of
profit and loss.

Data Mesh Implementation

Spearheaded an architecture team in the development of a reference
architecture aimed at establishing a platform for the creation and
management of data products and datasets by specific business domains
through an administrative website.

Data Marketplace

Established a data marketplace that enables consumers to discover
datasets categorized by business area. Each dataset in this marketplace
offers detailed information about its content, ownership, provenance,
quality, and update schedule.

Skills: BizzDesign, PowerDesigner, Collibra, Databricks

[] Lloyds Banking Group May 2022 to November 2022

Job Title: Enterprise Data Architect

Strategic Data Products Program

Contributed to the Strategic Data Products program, developing
educational materials for the central architecture team. These materials
provide guidance on designing data products that take into account the
need for a federated enterprise conceptual and logical data model.
Definitions in a data governance tool were incorporated to support this
initiative.

Risk Data Engineering Team Education

Instructed the Risk data engineering team on the creation of a strategic
data product for a Proof of Concept. This involved the use of Data Vault
2.0 to establish a flexible enterprise data hub that facilitates the
development of data products, including APIs, datasets, and stored
queries.

Skills: Sparx EA, Collibra, Confluence, Jira

DEFRA November 2021 to May 2022

Job Title: Data Solution Architect

Strategic Workforce Planning

Tasked with ensuring the alignment of people, skills, and jobs to meet
organizational needs. This project aims to integrate HR, Skill, and
Project Demand data into a strategic workforce planning tool to fulfil
this requirement.

Technologies: Sparx EA, Oracle HR, Kineo Learning Zone, Active
Directory, Azure SQL Database, Power BI

Conservation Management System

Responsible for the transition from a third-party vendor system to an
in-house solution for managing designated sites. This includes data
related to site details (address, ownership), environmental factors
(habitats, features, condition, air quality, water quality), and
conservation efforts (site improvement plans, marine & terrestrial
conservation advice).

Technologies: Sparx EA, ArcGIS, Azure SQL Database, Power BI,
PowerDynamics

Mintel May 2021 to November 2021

Job Title: Data Solution Architect

I was engaged in the architecture and data modelling of a cloud-based,
greenfield enterprise data warehouse aimed at enhancing data quality and
standardizing taxonomies (as defined by data governance) across our
various product websites. This encompassed Consumer Product information,
Purchase Intelligence, Consumer feedback data, Food & Drink items on
Restaurant menus, Retailer intelligence, and insights on North American
marketing campaigns. The pilot phase was focused on the analysis of Food
& Drink Product & Flavour data.

The data modelling and data integration patterns were based on Data
Vault 2.0 for the Landing Area, Enterprise Data Warehouse, and Data Mart
stages.

I also evaluated master data management solution: Profisee, Semarchy,
and Ataccama. While no data governance tool was in use, the need for one
to store business rules, business glossary, and data dictionary items
was identified.

Technical Stack: PowerDesigner, Snowflake, Looker, Fivetran, dbt,
Airflow

DTSQUARED Ltd June 2020 to May 2021

Permanently hired after 3 months as a data architect / manager and
promoted in January 2020 to lead data architect (see job below for
details of assignment).

Job Title: Manager (Enterprise Data Architecture)

Ford Credit (via DTSQUARED Ltd) March 2020 to April 2021 www.ford.co.uk

I worked for Ford Credit (the vehicle financing wing of Ford Motors),
where I provided business analysis and conceptual data model (using
Erwin) that covered their entire global business, with a particular
emphasis on Ford Credit North America & Ford Credit Europe. The data
domains/subject areas were split into Product, Geography, Party,
Commodity, Contract, Financial Ledger, Treasury, Operational Performance
& Regulatory Reporting.

From a business perspective, I covered the core analysis of retail,
commercial & wholesale contracts with their respective plans (finance &
soft adds e.g., insurance/extended warranty) for the financing of
commodities (vehicles & hard adds e.g., leather gear stick, alloy wheel
trims). Additionally, the coverage included FCE Bank, Treasury’s
liquidity requirements (money market & wall street investments),
securitisation (selling on the risk of contract failure) and Dealer
funding. Operational performance covered items such as complaints and
call volumes in the business/service centres. Financial ledger covered
the general ledger, subledgers & consolidated statutory accounts.
Regulatory reporting covered AnaCredit & LMM.

In addition to the above, we added attribute level information and
additional entities to transform the Conceptual Data Model into a
Logical Data Model on a use case basis.

I managed the team that populated Physical Axon (Data Dictionary & Data
Lineage) and provided the domain and entity information (from the LDM)
to the Data Governance team who used them to classify the data elements
& business terms and loaded it into Logical Axon (Glossary & Data
Quality) and established standard data quality rules and assigned data
ownership.

Separately, I mentored the technical graduates by developing a course
that took them through how to use Erwin for Conceptual, Logical &
Physical data modelling, deploying DDL to Snowflake and creating a
Python Flask Web App which displayed a Ford Motors Product Catalogue.

Technical Skills: Erwin Data Modeler, Business Analysis, Powerpoint,
Axon Data Governance, Python, Snowflake

[] Deutsche Bank February 2018 to December 2018 www.db.com

Job Title: Enterprise Data Architect

-   Provided architectural services that covered non-financial risk,
    including IT, Data security, Transaction processing, Record
    Management, Business Continuity, Vendor/Third Party, HR, and
    Physical Assets.

-   Developed a data strategy that encompassed systems related to Audit.

-   Led a development and operational team that created a Tableau Web
    Data Connector. This allowed data to be pulled in via a RESTful API
    (built from a Java Spring boot framework) from relational or web
    sources. These data sources were then used to produce reports for
    the Risk Committee.

-   Added non-financial risk asset and attribute definitions to the
    Collibra business glossary. This enabled the technical metadata to
    be pulled into the REST API over a dedicated feed and merged in as
    column descriptions for passing back to Tableau.

-   Served as a representative on the Architectural Design Forum.

Skills: SAP PowerDesigner, Collibra

Open Banking Ltd. (now part of UK Finance) December 2016 to February
2018
https://openbanking.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DZ/pages/16320694/Open+Data+API+Specifications
Job Title: Product Owner and Lead Data Architect
Responsible for the analysis and design of the re-write of the ATM,
Branch, Personal Current Account, Business Current Account, and
Commercial Credit Card API message specification. This involved defining
a RESTful API using Swagger.io and generating a JSON Schema message
payload via GEFEG.Fx (Pay UK’s preferred XML specification tool), which
was then converted via Node.js.

Other noteworthy organisations worked for on a contract or permanent
basis prior to 2017:-

  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  [Bank of America   Bank of America Merrill Lynch
  logo | Logok]      
  ------------------ ----------------------------------------------------
                     

  [Image result for  Visa Europe
  visa europe icon]  

                     

  [‎Oracle Cloud      Oracle
  Infrastructure on  
  the App Store]     

                     

  [IBM Logo PNG      IBM
  Image - PurePNG |  
  Free transparent   
  CC0 PNG Image      
  Library]           

                     

  [Camelot announces Camelot (The UK National Lottery Operator)
  National Lottery   
  expansion plans -  
  BBC News]          

                     
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------
